Find will come back in this way you were talking about assertions and assertions or something especially
useful when you're creating your program and they're used to check essentially whether something is
true or not.
But if the thing we're checking is false then we raise an error we say hey you made a mistake here there's
something that should be true but isn't That's what an assertion is.
For example let's create here a new file which I'm going to call assertions just to show you what I
mean.
So we're have a number answer just 10 and we divide it by another number.
So just two.
And when we run this file we get the number five.
You know which is what we would expect.
As you can see increase the size of this fund down here for your convenience which is great.
We've got 10 of it over to.
And that's fantastic.
But if we divide 10 by zero Do you know what happens.
Well it's a mathematical error and Python Fortunately realizes that this is not allowed.
And it gives zero division a division by zero is not allowed in mathematics.
So it can do it and which it won't give us isn't there.
However if at any point in our program we do encounter a zero division a program is going to crash and
it must stop unless we want to be checking for a zero and number at every step in our programs.
So what we can do in specific points in our program what it is especially important or where the program
flows into some sort of thin focus point if you wish.
In important places in our program we can check and the way we can check is to say for example.
And number 10 divisor equals 2.
We can check if divisor is not zero.
Or rather is zero raise value era Divisoria zero.
We could do something like this at some point in our program.
For example we have a divide secure method
like so.
I say we have this method and this method then we'll divide these two numbers.
And when we call the method if we check with the divisor is zero.
So this is just a basic method to show you how the checking for 0 could be done.
Naturally this method could also have a number divisor.
There we could not have that.
And at the end we could return number by divisor.
So.
OK let's let's leave it as that just a bit simple.
So we've got to divide SECU method with checks where the divisor is equal to zero and if it does it
raises a value error which I think is a reasonable error.
Another could be that 0 division error or it could just do something like return minus 1 or you know
something it could do something to tell our program that it went wrong there.
And let's leave the value area there.
And what that means is that when someone is using this method such as yourself you are going to know
via the exception that you have made a mistake or somewhere that your program went wrong and you ended
up with a zero in your division which is not a correct thing to end up with.
So when you are using this method then you're going to know that something went wrong there.
However if you create your program such that the number 0 will never be there.
Then this check loses a bit of value.
I'm sure you agree with me if the divisor is never going to be zero.
Then checking for it to be zero loses value because it is not a scenario that is ever going to happen
.
Now while you develop your program you may not be 100 percent confident that the device is never going
to be zero.
For example a way that you could make sure your divide is never zero is by checking early around.
You can ask the user to enter a number input and or a number.
And if
if user input equals zero then you can ask again and so on.
If you do something like this for example this divisor would never be equal to zero.
Right.
But while you were developing your program you may want to see what happens.
Or maybe you won't have this check in place at the time.
So there is a better way of doing things rather than checking if the divisor to zero and then raising
the value are the better way is to do an assertion assert divisor is not equal to zero.
And what this does is exactly the same thing.
It will check whether divisor is 0 and if it is zero then it will raise an assertion error.
Now you're probably wondering well why is that better.
And the answer to that is because the assertions once you verified that your program will not allow
zero to get to this point the assertion turns itself off when your program is running in high performance
mode.
So this is not useful if your programs are always running in normal mode which is the normal thing.
But sometimes if your program requires high performance you can do compile it and remove the assertions
and by having assertions instead of just normal checks you can allow your program to do that.
So use assertions when values are going to be incorrect and you're gonna be checking whether the value
is correct or not.
Or Yaaron to charge when the user is inputting values.
Use exceptions to control the flow of the program when incorrect values appear and you cannot check
for them earlier or you cannot filter them earlier than use exceptions but use assertions if you may
want to turn them off later wrong.
So just to improve performance of your program you can also have a message
which is after the comma and that's it.
So divisor is not equal to zero.
And if it is it will raise an assertion error assertion error with that message.
OK.
So if we print divide secure 10 by zero we get an assertion error with that message.
So let's say for this video I just want to tell you that assertions exist and to use them as Chink's
when you may want to turn them off later on if you're never going to want to turn them off you're always
going to want to have them there.
Use exceptions instead and just because there is no possibility of turning them off.
OK that's everything for this video.
Hope you learn something.
And I see you in the very next one.